*The Carmel Way: Redefining Work In The Machine Era*

## Chapter 10: A New Educational System

But the Carmel Tweak-N-Learn™ model alone is not enough. As exciting as it is that we now have an incredible Tech Educational Model that can scale, we also need a new Tech Educational System if we want to truly scale. We not only need a technical scalable architecture, but more importantly, the scalability we’re after is at the community level. We’re interested, primarily, in organizing the Carmel Community with scalability in mind so as to become the optimal means of deploying our Tweak-N-Learn™ Educational Model. 

The current Tech Educational System is outdated simply because it was designed in the pre-digital era and it was never meant to cater to the new generation of High-Tech Workers. The primarily reason why the traditional educational system is failing us today and it’s not ready for the rising Machine Revolution, is because it is a closed, centralized system. 

Education is the poster child of the centralized, industrial era. The way schools are designed today is inherently unscalable but also detrimental to learners because the intrinsic motivation of those using the system - the learners - is misaligned with the motivation of those running the show. In other words, if learners are not in charge, the system is bottlenecked and flawed against that natural, organic growth that we desperately need, if we are to produce truly effective education. There are several online platforms catering to people like Chris today. The problem is that they are all operating under a centralized architecture and business model, where the platform acts as a third party between teachers and students, dominating the entire teaching and learning experience. 

The challenge with centralized education is that it is highly modeled around the needs of the central party running the show, while the teachers and students are treated as second class citizens in the system. What that really means is that the power resides with the central governing authority, leaving the real paying customers (students) and contributors (teachers) out of the system. It ends up becoming a business with the sole purpose of turning a profit and forgetting its initial purpose, its initial mission - that of creating a network of productivity and exchange for those willing to put in the work to better themselves and society at large. The only way to reduce our dependence on a centralized authority in a learning ecosystem, and to empower the learners, is to architect the entire model from scratch as a system that places Learning Value and the good of the learner, the Customer - at the epicenter of the entire system. That's precisely how Carmel is designed. 

As a Decentralized Self-Governing Learning Community, focused on helping low-tech workers like Chris, acquire technical skills. And that principle activity - producing Learning Value - is the primary force driving the entire ecosystem. Certainly, Chris needs support, especially from Contributors and we can’t expect all learners and contributors to care about governance, but that’s a secondary concern. If we design the system to cater to Chris, first and foremost, then the system can support secondary actors that add value, without breaking the flow of value creation and without creating centralized bottlenecks. So let’s look at the different members of the Carmel Community, to understand their role, the way they each benefit from using the platform and the value they each add to the entire ecosystem. First, certainly, let’s take a closer look at Chris. 

*Chris (The Learner)*

You already met Chris. He is the hero of the Carmel Story and he is also the Customer. Remember - Chris can't sleep at night because he is worried he will lose his job to a machine and he won’t be able to provide for his family. That’s why Carmel exists - to solve that problem. Carmel is designed to be Customer-Oriented from the beginning of our story - Chris-Oriented. And the way we solve that problem is by offering Chris a new way of learning, our unique Carmel Tweak-N-Learn™ Educational Model. 

Carmel offers Chris small microlearning puzzles that he can complete on his Developer Journey. We call these Challenges and Chris essentially challenges himself as he grows. Upon successful completion of each Challenge, Chris unlocks Achievements and earns Experience Points. Chris starts his Developer Journey, by creating an account online and receiving unlimited access to all Carmel Challenges. The free plan starts out with 30 minutes of learning time every month. To get more out of his Developer Journey and learn more than 30 minutes per month, Chris can purchase more Learning Minutes. 

*Bob (The Contributor)*

In order for Chris to be successful, our community needs to include supporting members - much like any story is simply not the same without its own supporting characters. Bob is the driving force behind the Carmel Challenges, as he creates them and makes them available to Chris. 

Carmel guides Bob to focus on Product Development, not on syntax. So, a typical Carmel Challenge that Bob authors is not focused on if-statements, or while-loops, classes, objects and other syntax, but rather on real Product Development problems. When creating a Challenge, Bob starts out by choosing a valuable problem to solve, such as “Creating a Login Web Page” or “Integrating Transactional Emails” and writes a clear Tutorial as well as a Validation Script that the Carmel uses to automatically test whether Chris does complete the challenge or not. Bob earns a Passive Income that grows based on the level of his contributions. The more value Bob contributes, the more Reputation Points he receives and the more income he earns each month. Bob can also earn additional revenue in Carmel by developing product Templates and Chunks of code that can be used by Chris when taking Challenges. 

*Diane (The Recruiter)*

If Chris does not get hired, the entire model fails. As a community - we need to encourage, help and support learners in their quest to transition to a tech career. That's crucial. And that's why Diane is here. Diane uses Carmel to monitor Chris’ Developer Journey and even to sponsor part of his journey. The current Tech Recruiting Process is unscalable much like the current Tech Educational Model. The reason is because it begins too late. A recruiter starts looking for candidates, after these develop their skill set.  

In order to fill those positions, recruiters need support in their search for candidates by broadening the pool. And the way to do that, is by plugging Tech Recruiting in the Tech Education Model. In Carmel, recruiters like Diane follow candidates in their Developer Journey and can incentivize learners to grow in a certain direction, by creating Skill Bounties. Recruiters can place Free Bounties and can subscribe to a paid Premium Recruiter Plan to place Premium Bounties and access more candidates. Candidates are incentivized to unlock Skill Bounties to win interviews and land jobs. Everybody wins. 

*Emma (The Manager)*

And what happens once Chris gets hired? Is the Carmel Story over for him? Not at all. Carmel is not only about getting that first job - it's more than that. It's about Infinite Learning - which means we want to support Chris throughout his entire career as a Software Developer. But once Chris gets hired, that's not possible without the support of Chris' Development Manager. That would be Emma. Emma uses Carmel to continuously improve Chris’ skills and even track his progress - on the job. Carmel solves a tough problem for Emma - namely, measuring Developer Growth.  

With Carmel, Emma can choose the Premium Carmel Subscription Team Plan and she can then create Carmel Training Quests for Chris and the rest of her Development Team. As her team completes more Carmel Challenges, she can then access Team Progress Reports with detailed information on each developer’s growth. In addition to training, with the Team Plan, Digital Agencies have access to incoming Work Requests coming from Entrepreneurs interested in leveraging the Carmel Developer network to turn their ideas into products. With Carmel, Emma can not only grow her team but her business too. 

*Fred (The Entrepreneur)*

Speaking of Entrepreneurs motivated to turn their ideas into products - meet Fred. So this is great, we have this amazing Developer Community on Carmel. And in this continuously evolving digital world, there's so much need for development work. Digital Agencies would be delighted to get more work. Even developers like Bob can do some freelancing. Ultimately Chris himself - if he gathers enough skills to produce quality work, maybe he'll do a few contracts to sharpen his newfound skills and earn some revenue.  

That said - Carmel loves Entrepreneurs - like Fred. Fred is driven to see his ideas come to life but he needs help. He comes to Carmel and sets a budget, enters information about his needs and requests a Custom Quote for his project. Based on Fred’s needs, Carmel then matches him with the right talent in the Carmel Developer Community. Fred pays Carmel a fee for the talent matching service and pursues the work with the Development Team recommended by Carmel. In essence, Carmel will match Fred with someone like Emma and her Development Team. 

### The Blockchain Promise 

A Decentralized Self-Governing Learning Community sounds incredible and that’s what we’re building, that’s what Carmel is. And we believe that’s the only kind of Educational System that can truly scale and the way education should work in the 21st century. But it’s worth pondering for a few moments, what that really means. What does Decentralization mean? How does it differ from Centralization? Why does it matter and ultimately, what is the real Blockchain Promise? Blockchain-as-a-Currency has been well received over the past decade, primarily through the soaring success of Bitcoin. The underlying technology of immutable data, chained together in a sequence of trusted, secure blocks, is mesmerizing. A blockchain allows for large amounts of data to be stored and fetched with the added promise that the data will never change. 

That’s it. That’s the Blockchain Promise. Trustless Immutable Data. Much like with the Internet Revolution in the 1990’s or with the Mobile Revolution in the 2000’s, the promise of the new Blockchain Revolution is obscure at first and not intuitive to grasp without a thorough reflection. Those who understand the Blockchain Promise early on, much like with past revolutionary technologies, will stand tall once the promise is clear to everyone else. 

We at Carmel believe Blockchain is the most revolutionary technology of our time. Let’s look at what the Blockchain Promise of Trustless Immutable Data means to the world of Tech Education and why we believe Carmel is positioned to stand tall by leveraging blockchain technology. The financial applications of Trustless Immutable Data are obvious, hence the success of currencies based on blockchain technologies. With blockchain technology, the need for central financial authorities becomes obsolete. Why? Simply because the purpose of banks is to certify a series of financial transactions made from one bank account to another, over time. 

That is how banks justify their existence. They exist to ensure that if John sent one dollar to Susan, then John will have one dollar less left in his bank account, whereas Susan will be one dollar richer. It seems so trivial, so simple - and we’re so used to this, that we don’t question it anymore. But here comes a Financial Blockchain, like Bitcoin, that ensures that John can send one Bitcoin to Susan and he will be one Bitcoin poorer while Susan will have one more Bitcoin in her bitcoin wallet. And all that happens without a central authority to oversee the process. It just works. 

If you let that sink in and really process what really happens in a Bitcoin transaction, you might get a glimpse of the future. Much like if you were around in 1999 in the AOL days, in the “you’ve got mail” era - if you understood the promise of the Internet back then, you would’ve gotten a glimpse of the future. Or much like if you understood what downloading apps on your iPhone from the App Store really meant in 2009 and you would’ve really reflected on the promise of Mobile, you would’ve seen the future. Today, in 2019, you can get truly get a glimpse of the future if you take enough time to comprehend what a blockchain really promises. Let’s try to peak at the future together, through the blockchain lens, especially as it pertains to education. 

If we look beyond a Bitcoin transaction, we discover a world of possibilities beyond anything we’ve ever seen before in the history of humankind. When you really think about it, you see data everywhere. Not just static, plain data, but Data Streams. We see data points that tell a story, data that has meaning when analyzed over time. In fact, there’s hardly an area of society where we don’t see these streams of data deeply embedded in our day to day life. And wherever we see a Data Stream that is worth something to someone, a Valuable Data Stream, we also find central authorities that certify the validity of that data. We also find that we can’t live that part of our life without that central authority telling us and the rest of the world that we can truly trust that data. 

We’ve seen that process at play in financial transactions but what about supply chains? What about health care? Law? Accounting? Sports? Food? Music? Games? And just about any area of life we can think of? What about Education? In the world of education, blockchain technology can revolutionize the way we architect entire educational systems, the way we govern schools and the way students derive value and even the way knowledge contributors are compensated. With the right blockchain technology, we can design a Tech Educational System that can substitute the need of relying on a central governing authority - such as an University - to certify students. 

A diploma - the certificate of graduation minted by the Dean’s Authority - is nothing else but a stamp of approval from the University that tells the world that a particular student did in fact derive a certain amount of learning value, by completing a certain number of courses as required by the degree. If we look at the action of completing a course as a Learning Transaction, much like making a purchase is a financial transaction, then we can see how blockchain technology can replace our reliance on universities when it comes to education, much like the same technology is already replacing our reliance on banks when it comes to our finances. 

If there were a way to keep track of all Learning Transactions of a particular student as a stream of Trustless Immutable Data, well, then - problem solved. That is Blockchain applied to Education. Imagine if you will, a student’s learning activity as a series of data points that are stored in blocks and chained together in a blockchain. What that would yield, would be the student’s entire Transcript that can be trusted by the entire world, as certified by the inherent immutability of the underlying blockchain technology. If the blockchain says John got an A in Physics 101, well, then John got an A in Physics 101, no question about it. And no need for anyone to phone up any university or a college to ask for John’s transcript, “just to make sure”. Just like banks and just like every single centralized authority in any industry - centralized schools are in trouble. Because the Blockchain Revolution is coming and it’s bringing along a massive wave of Trustless Immutable Data streams that we commonly refer to as Decentralization. 